1. In a SCRUM team, who’s the manager?

In a Scrum team, there is typically no traditional manager in the traditional sense.
Scrum promotes a self-organizing, cross-functional team structure where responsibility
and decision-making are distributed among team members rather than being centralized in a
single manager.

Instead, Scrum teams are led by the Scrum Master, who is responsible for facilitating the
Scrum process, removing impediments, and ensuring that the team adheres to Scrum principles
and practices. The Scrum Master acts as a servant-leader, supporting the team in achieving
its goals, fostering collaboration, and facilitating continuous improvement.

Within the Scrum team itself, there are no formal titles or hierarchical distinctions. Instead,
team members collaborate and work together to deliver product increments during each sprint.
The team is expected to be self-organizing, with members taking ownership of tasks, making
decisions collectively, and holding each other accountable for delivering high-quality work.

2. What are design patterns? What is their purpose and what are their benefits?

Design patterns are reusable solutions to common problems encountered during
software development. They provide a common language for developers to communicate
design ideas and solutions, enhancing collaboration and understanding among team members.
(Design patterns abstract away from implementation details, focusing on the problem domain and
high-level design decisions. This allows developers to focus on solving higher-level architectural
and design challenges rather than getting bogged down in low-level implementation details.)
Design patterns help manage complexity and scale software systems by providing well-defined
structures and guidelines for building larger, more complex systems.

the most popular design patterns:

    Singleton: Ensures that a class has only one instance and provides a global point of access
    to that instance.
( class connection { private static final Connection instance new Connection () ;
                                use private constructors } )

    Factory Method: Defines an interface for creating an object, but allows subclasses to alter
    the type of objects that will be created.

    Abstract Factory: Provides an interface for creating families of related or dependent
    objects without specifying their concrete classes.

    Builder: Separates the construction of a complex object from its representation, allowing the
    same construction process to create different representations.

    Decorator: Adds new functionality to an object dynamically without altering its structure,
    providing a flexible alternative to subclassing for extending functionality.

3. Explain the use of one of the following patterns: Facade, Proxy, and Bridge.
Advantages vs disadvantages in practice.

The Proxy pattern is a structural design pattern that provides a surrogate or placeholder for
another object to control access to it. This pattern involves creating a new object (the proxy)
that acts as an intermediary between the client and the real object. The client interacts with
the proxy, which in turn delegates the request to the real object as necessary.Consider a scenario
where you have a large video file that needs to be loaded into memory for processing. Loading such
a file directly into memory might be inefficient, especially if the file is very large. Instead,
you could use a proxy object to represent the video file. The proxy could handle tasks like loading
the video file into memory only when necessary and provide additional functionalities like caching
or access control.
The Facade pattern is a structural design pattern that provides a simplified interface to a complex
system of classes, libraries, or APIs. It hides the complexities of the underlying system and
provides a unified interface for the client to interact with. Facade encapsulates the interactions
between multiple objects and presents them through a single interface.
Imagine you're working with a complex library or framework with numerous classes and subsystems.
Instead of exposing all these complexities to the client, you can create a facade class that
provides a simplified interface for common tasks.
The Bridge pattern is a structural design pattern that decouples an abstraction from its
implementation so that the two can vary independently. It involves creating two separate
hierarchies: one for the abstraction (interface or abstract class) and another for the
implementation. The bridge pattern allows changes in the abstraction or implementation to
occur independently without affecting each other.
Consider a scenario where you have different shapes (abstraction) that can be drawn using
different rendering engines (implementation), such as drawing shapes using vector graphics
or raster graphics. The Bridge pattern allows you to define separate hierarchies for shapes
and rendering engines, and then bridge them together using composition, enabling any shape
to be drawn using any rendering engine.

4. Explain the use of one of the following patterns: Strategy, Observer, Visitor.
Advantages vs disadvantages in practice.

The Strategy pattern is a behavioral design pattern that enables a client to choose from a
family of algorithms at runtime. It defines a set of algorithms, encapsulates each one, and
makes them interchangeable. The client can switch between different strategies without altering
its structure.Consider a sorting algorithm. In a system that requires sorting functionality, you
can implement the Strategy pattern by creating a strategy interface (e.g., SortStrategy) and
concrete implementations for various sorting algorithms (e.g., QuickSort, MergeSort). The client
can then choose which sorting algorithm to use at runtime by selecting the appropriate strategy.
The Observer pattern is a behavioral design pattern where an object (known as the subject)
maintains a list of its dependents (observers) and notifies them of any state changes, usually by
calling one of their methods. This pattern establishes a one-to-many dependency between objects,
ensuring that when one object changes its state, all its dependents are notified and updated
automatically.
Consider a scenario where you have a weather station that periodically measures temperature,
humidity, and pressure. Multiple displays (e.g., current conditions display, statistics display,
forecast display) need to be updated whenever the weather data changes. In this case, the weather
station acts as the subject, and the displays act as observers.
The Visitor pattern is a behavioral design pattern that allows adding new operations to existing
classes without modifying their structure. It achieves this by separating the algorithm from the
object structure on which it operates. The Visitor pattern involves defining a visitor interface
with methods corresponding to each class in the object structure. Concrete visitor implementations
can then visit each element of the object structure and perform the necessary operations.
Consider a system with a hierarchy of shapes (e.g., circles, rectangles, triangles). You may need
to perform various operations on these shapes, such as calculating their area, perimeter, or
rendering them to a canvas. Instead of adding these operations directly to the shape classes,
which can lead to a proliferation of methods and violate the open/closed principle, you can use
the Visitor pattern. Define a visitor interface with visit methods for each shape type, and
concrete visitor implementations for each operation you want to perform on the shapes.